## Meaning of Database
Generally, a database is a structured system used to organize the collection of interrelated data stored in a computer. A database model determines a database's logical structure and fundamentally determines how these databases can be stored, organized, and manipulated. There are five basic database models: 
- Hierarchical database
- network database
- relational database
- object-oriented database
- NoSQL database (Non-relational database).
I will elaborate on the various database model and their common use case.

## Hierarchical Database
A hierarchical data model is one of the earliest data models that use a parent-child relationship to map data into trees. It's a file-based model that is built like a tree, where a  parent could be associated with multiple child nodes in the model, but a child node could have only one parent. This model supports one-to-one and one-to-many relationships. This simple relationship mapping allows users to establish relationships between items in a tree structure. A hierarchical database is handy for specific data types but does not allow for complex relationship management.
Furthermore, the meaning of the parent-child relationship is implicit. One parent-child connection could be between a customer and their orders, while another might represent an employee and the equipment they have been allocated, a hierarchy of file system storage, and geographical information. Let us take an example of college students who take different courses. Hierarchical databases are not used much today due to their limited ability to organize most data, as some data applies many-many relationships.

## Network Database
The network database was built on the foundation of the hierarchical database but added more features that made it more flexible when compared to the hierarchical database. Instead of always having a single parent, as in hierarchical databases, network database entries can have more than one parent, allowing them to model more complex relationships. It is represented as a generic graph rather than a tree, making mapping more flexible with non-hierarchical links.
Network databases were a giant leap forward in terms of flexibility and map connections between information. However, they were still limited by the same access patterns and design mindset of hierarchical databases. For instance, you still needed to follow the network paths to the record in question to access data. The parent-child relationship carried over from hierarchical databases also affected how items could connect.
It isn't easy to find modern examples of network database systems. Setting up and working with network databases required a good deal of skill and specialized domain knowledge. Most systems that could be approximated using network databases found a better fit once relational databases appeared. The network model is better than the hierarchical model in isolating the programs from the complex physical storage details and can handle one to many and many to many relationships which is real help in modelling the real-life situations.

## Relational Database
The relational database is one of the significant databases currently used in production. Relational databases organize data using tables. The highly organized structure imparted by the rigid table structure, combined with the flexibility offered by the relations between tables, makes relational databases very powerful and adaptable to many types of data. A querying language called SQL, or structured query language, was created to access and manipulate data stored with that format.
In general, relational databases are often a good fit for any data that is regular, predictable, and benefits from the ability to compose information in various formats flexibly. Because relational databases work off a schema, it can be more challenging to alter the data structure after it is in the system. However, the schema also helps enforce the integrity of the data, making sure values match the expected formats and that required information is included. This database form is primarily used in transaction processing, business intelligence, and analytics applications in corporate IT environments where data are ordered. This model also runs on virtually all platforms, including Linux, UNIX, and Windows. Unlike Hierarchical and network databases, changes in the database structure do not affect data access and are easier to maintain security.

## NoSQL Database
NoSQL Database is a modern alternative for data that doesn't fit into the relational database. It is a varied collection of contemporary database types that offer approaches that differ from the standard relational pattern. NoSQL is said to stand for either "non-SQL" or "not only SQL" to sometimes clarify that they sometimes allow for SQL-like querying, which differs from a relational database that uses structured querying language (SQL). Unlike a relational database, a NoSQL database is a mechanism for storing and retrieving data. It works great with mobile, web, and gaming applications. It provides flexibility, scalability, high-performance, and highly functional APIs. Compared to a relational database, it is highly scalable horizontally, thereby making its schema dynamic. It can handle and store a large amount of data with little or no structure.When compared to relational databases, NoSQL databases store information in JSON documents rather than the columns and rows used by relational databases

## Object-oriented database
The object-oriented database model ties related packages together, in my term creating a form of container to enclose associated data. In other words, a data set and its attributes are combined within an object; in this way, all of the information is directly available. Unlike relational databases, where data are distributed across different tables, the data can be retrieved in one package. An object database is advantageous when working with object-oriented programming languages, like Java. The objects of the source code can simply be incorporated into the database. If we turn to a relational database, which is relatively common, complex objects are more challenging to integrate into the table construct. It is right to state that an object-oriented database works perfectly well with object-oriented programming languages.

