# Scrum
Scrum is a process that enables people to deal with complex adaptive difficulties while generating high-value products in a productive and creative way. Scrum is a popular agile software development subset Scrum necessitates the presence of a Scrum Master in order to create an environment in which a Product Owner orders work for a problematic issue into a Product Backlog. The Scrum Team converts a selection of work into a value increment during a Sprint.  The Scrum Team and its stakeholders discuss the results and make changes for the next Sprint; this process is continued until a common goal is realized.
Scrum is a software product development methodology that organizes software developers into teams to pursue a common goal, culminating in a market-ready product. Scrum is a process framework that has been used since the early 1990s to manage complicated product development. Scrum is neither a method or a technique for creating products; rather, it provides a framework within which multiple processes and techniques can be used. Scrum reveals the relative effectiveness of your product management and development techniques, allowing you to improve.Scrum Teams with their related roles, events, objects, and rules comprise the Scrum framework. Each component of the framework serves a distinct function and is critical to the success and use of Scrum.Scrum rules bind together events, roles, and objects, controlling their connections and interactions. The required events are utilized in Scrum to create consistency. All events are time boxed which means that each event has a maximum duration.
## Sprint
 The Sprint, a two-week or one-month time-box in which a potentially releasable product increment is generated, is at the heart of Scrum. A new Sprint begins soon after the preceding Sprint concludes. Sprints are made up of Sprint planning, daily scrums, development work, Sprint review, and Sprint retrospective. The work to be done in the Sprint is planned collectively by the Scrum Team during Sprint planning.The Daily Scrum Meeting is a timed event of 15 minutes for the Scrum Team to coordinate activities and set a strategy for the day. At the end of the Sprint, a Sprint Review is performed to review the Increment and, if necessary, make modifications to the Product Backlog. The Sprint Retrospective takes place following the Sprint Review and before the next Sprint Planning. The Scrum Team will inspect itself and prepare a plan for changes to be implemented during the next Sprint at this meeting.
 Some of the benefit of employing scrum software development includes;
 - Better productivity and faster delivery time;  Smart work planning is the reason teams do so well in Scrum.
A Scrum software development team works in set time intervals called sprints that last 1-5 weeks.During the sprint planning meeting,  the project manager supports both the development team and the product owner in defining user stories, as well as end objectives and real users of the final product Keeping every member of the team comfortable promotes morale, which has a direct influence on productivity and work speed.
Even if the development team is allowed to arrange themselves, the project manager watches all activities and takes appropriate action if something goes horribly wrong.
- Top end-product quality; Aside from the fact that it speeds up the development process, another reason we choose Scrum is the high quality of the eventual outcome. Every team member must have a thorough awareness of the product's characteristics in order to provide a high-quality end result.  When misconceptions or errors are uncovered, they may be rectified during the next Scrum daily team meeting.
Scrum makes it simple to identify those early on since larger jobs are broken down into smaller,  manageable chunks during the planning phase.Furthermore,detecting problems early in the process provides improved quality as well as time efficiency.The most significant benefit of project management in Scrum is the active engagement of the product owner in the development process.
- More predictable project schedule; Project timetables are properly forecasted under an agile framework because the team that will actually work on the project estimates the timeline.It is extremely unusual for a project to be finished within its predicted time frame. Estimates with perfect precision do not exist.As a result, estimations are given in story points rather than time units.Project timetables are properly forecasted under an agile framework because the team that will actually work on the project forecasts the timeline. It is extremely unusual for a project to be finished within its predicted time frame Estimates with perfect precision do not exist. As a result, estimations are given in story points rather than time units.
- Increased project control and full transparency; Transparency between the development firm and the client can have a significant influence on the project's result. The customer serves as the product owner in Scrum and is an active part of the project team throughout the development process. Because the product owner participates in the development process by attending sprint reviews, the client is informed of the project's progress, future goals, and timetables. The product owner is also responsible for organizing the project backlog (together with the Project Manager) by adding new tasks and prioritizing them to ensure that the team has all necessary information for development.
- Staying within a specified budget; One of the most common reasons for project failure is exceeding the budgeted amount. The Project Manager gets an overview of the whole budget and the current status of the project, allowing him to adjust the project schedule and prioritize work in collaboration with the product owner in order to accomplish project goals and offer maximum business value. One of the main goals of project managers is to stay within a budget. The project budget is evaluated on a daily basis, and if there is a chance to lower costs or accelerate project execution toward the end objective, appropriate steps are developed and implemented.
- Flexibility and adaptability to requirements changes; Going agile entails quick product releases and the capacity to change the scope based on the needs of the client, as well as staying ahead of the competition at all times. The scrum team can swiftly react to changes in product requirements in order to deliver a competitive edge to the client. Despite the fact that the Scrum framework was designed to deal with unexpected changes in the development plan, major alterations should be avoided in order to meet the set budget and timeline.
- Higher ROI and faster time to market;  In any industry, the key issue is return on investment (ROI). The ROI compares the benefits of the investment to the expenses of the investment.One of Scrum's primary goals is to maximize a project's ROI.Scrum has been shown to give value to clients 30-40% faster than alternative methodologies such as waterfall. This is achievable owing to earlier development beginning,  the fact that the highest value needs are provided before the lower value and risk requirements, and the team producing a functional product and shippable increments at the conclusion of each sprint.

## Agile Manifesto
- Individuals and interactions over   processes and tools
- Working software over comprehensive documentation
- Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
- Responding to change over following a plan